tonight's lecture is solely devoted on
the ancien psychology it's there is
nothing like Eastern and with Western
psychology actual world that can be used
is modern and ancient psychology some a
few centuries before Christ there was a
great sage called Patanjali who
systematized and organized the study of
the internal states that he organized in
a way that common man cannot understand
them because they are called sutras
sutra means string there are 196 sutras
and they make a book called yoga sutras
the Otherworld is used for union it is
used in a different way in the Bible it
is used in other Bibles of the world nan
wanted to find out few ways and means to
make life happier in the external world
and when he could get some results he
was yet not happy then he started
searching for the internal ways of
organizing the internal states so those
who does need expansion without it
standing the shootas said like Greek and
Latin for the students they won't know
them
I studied sutras thousand times in my
childhood if I did not know much about
sutras how one should rise related with
another Sutra it's a very interesting
story and in those sutras in those
affordance you will not find only
science technique philosophy but
psychology also so Yoga psychology is
very deep and that can we understand
understood only by practicing it not why
you see memorizing the sutras so
patently the qualifier of yoga science
says that all human beings can attain
the goal that is called human the life
the goal for human life by practicing
yoga sutras by understanding them
properly by applying the other sutras in
daily life in India the psychology is
called applied psychology in modern
terms there are courses in the
university or applied psychology where
you have a sutras are practiced
explained and there are various
commentaries on the subject and those
who are you see in graduate school I
will do them separate time so that they
can have more references did you get the
books that you have I have recommended
you to study graduate students let's
talk
now the fundamental of this sutras is
utter yoga national first word that has
been used is now no have this word has
been used in a way it is used here when
you ask your child or your student or
someone a preceptor instruct his
students he forces now you do this it
means you have done something before you
are ready to do now something so that
now here the first to try and first word
he believes the world now say something
about the world now now you do this it
means you are prepared to study the two
trials to practice the sutras even to
practice and study and apply the sutras
in your daily life you have to prepare
yourself what is that preparation part
and that explains the whole thing
you